---
layout: entry
title: Workflow
slug: workflow
---

We hire smart people, and accept that it’s in their nature to work to a pattern that suits them.

There are however some specifics we like to highlight and some practices we’d like to standardise across the company. We mention them because we think they’re important to how the company operates and how everyone can work together efficiently.

###Google Docs
Team collaboration is a big part of Moltin. You will find that sometimes you need to write up specifications, findings, sheet data and a myriad of other ideas, concepts, or ramblings.

We ask two things from everyone who does work in this scope.

 - **Be collaborative**. Work together on documents when possible. Ask someone to check your wording, check your calculations, check your naming conventions, etc… Group discussions are important to spreading good ideas.
 - **Use Google Docs/sheets/etc**. Standardised, easy to collaborate and share between the team, easy to find again, easy to organise, easy to share outside the team, linked to individuals. **Always use Google Docs!**

###Emails
Moltin uses Google Apps for business, which means our email system is essentially Gmail. Most of our external communication is via email, most of our internal communication is via slack.

Some things to keep in mind when using email:

 - **Undo**. We advise you use in-browser gmail and enable the “undo” button for your account. You’ll be surprised how helpful a few seconds delay is on an email after you hit send. You can fix many accidental fails this way.
 - **Email Footer**. If you haven’t been setup with an email footer, ask someone to help you sort it out before you do anything else.
 - **Attitude**. Emails are usually external communications, that means it is often the first time another person or company will interact with us. That means be courteous, helpful, understanding, etc…  don’t be an asshole!
 - **Gifs**! Have a good rapport with someone? A gif can say a thousand words :)


###Slack
Slack comprises the majority of our internal discussions, support, chit-chat, and group learning it gives us the ability to automate process and work effectively, and will continue to be an active asset for the company.
Our attitudes to Slack:

 - **Use it**. Use it as often as possible. Of course in an office it’s easier to talk face to face, but if you have a particularly complex discussion and actually walk away with some conclusions, add them to slack in short form. Those conclusions are not only searchable now and forever, but relevant to others who might have missed the conversation, or may be affected by the decisions.
 - **Channels**. Its very important to use the relevant channel, if there isn’t one, make one…
Be around. We try to have a relaxed work schedule at Moltin, but we ask one thing, try to be around on slack.
 - **Gifs**! Gif all the things. But yeah gifs, videos, anything.
 - **Share**. Learned something new? Found a great blog post? Have a new idea? Share it. We take the concept that if you’re not sharing new things regularly, then you may be stagnating, or not enjoying yourself. Share liberally, share often.
 - **Groups**. There are hundreds of other slack groups and channels out there, join them, share them, be visible and be active. Its healthy to communicate and learn new ideas across a broad spectrum, so not just within the company.
 - **Automate**. Think you can automate something into Slack? DO IT! We love that kind of thing.
 - **Moltin Hub**. Be in it! Our community is one of the most important things. Be vocal, be visible, be active.

###Github
Every repository Moltin owns is hosted on Github. Github offers not just a fantastic standard of version control hosting, but it is another front facing asset of the company, a visible portal of the health and competence of our company. With that in mind, here’s a few things to watch out for:

 - **Be there**. Everyone should have a github account.
 - **Be vocal**. Be vocal on issues and threads, ask questions, be brave, break boundaries.
 - **Good attitude**. Be careful in your chosen words when commenting on threads/issues. As goes with emails, this is a public realm and you and the company can be put in an unhealthy light if you act in a disreputable manner.
 - **Be Active**. Be as active as you can on other repos. Its great for yours and our rep.
 - **Know Git and Github**. In the technical handbook, we’ll outline this more, but everyone should have a basic understanding of git and github.
 - **Follow Github Flow**. https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/
 - **Fork Other Repos**. Want to change it for yourself? Want to fix something? Want to create something from something else? Fork it, fork all the things, be smart but be liberal if it will help you and the company.
 - **Personal Repositories**. We ask that you make a distinction between work and personal projects. Don’t fork a private Moltin repo to your personal account, don’t fork a personal project to the Moltin account. (Boundaries aren’t always clear, so, If you’re unsure, just ask!)
 - **Open Source**. Its not always possible to open source everything we do. But, that doesn’t mean we don’t want to. Always ask yourself, can this be open sourced? If so, build it in a way that makes that possible.

###Jira
Jira is the software we use to plan all our issues, bugs, features, sprints etc… Jira can be a beast, but, it’s a rich system, and once you spend some time getting to know it, you’ll find how valuable it can be.

Time/build management is a whole other document in its own right, and something we’ll try and cover in the technical document more, but here are some basic things we try to adhere to:

 - **Be there**. Everyone should have a personal account. If you don’t, stop everything and ask for one.
 - **Use it!** Even if it’s not a big task. We’re happy for you to take a bit of time planning something out into steps. It means you know what you’re doing if you’re sidetracked, and the team as a whole knows what you're doing and be kept up to date with progress across the board. This also goes for any non-technical roles.
 - **Help each other**. As mentioned Jira can be a bit of a monster at first, so help each other. That goes from someone needing help finding the right page or button, to someone using bad naming conventions or not breaking tasks down enough, mention it. We’re all here to learn and make ourselves better.


###Working hours
We have a liberal approach to working hours. We do however ask for the first 3-6 months you attain a normal 9 to 5 working pattern. This is so we can get you up to speed with the company and whatever part of it you’ll be working in. Once you’ve settled in, you’ll find your office hours become more malleable.

Every now and then people wish to push themselves a bit further and put in more than the usual hours. While this is great for a deadline, if this is happening regularly it’s a sign that something isn’t working correctly. We spend a lot of time hiring the right people who can strike a good balance between work and life outside.

If you find yourself working too many hours, you should mention it so it can be addressed.


###A guide to working in the office
Coming soon!.. Kindof need the office to be built for this one.


###Infrastructure
“The basic physical and organizational structures and facilities (e.g. buildings, roads, power supplies) needed for the operation of a society or enterprise.”

Infrastructure is the physical aspect of our delivery. Its the servers, databases, load balancers and programs that govern how our software is delivered to the end user. Infrastructure is a constantly changing battlefield. Many factors including security, latency, load and more contribute to decisions made in infrastructure.

As a basic rule we like everyone to understand the following:

 - Our infrastructure is worldwide.
 - Our infrastructure is built on Amazon Web Services.
 - Our infrastructure is the base we build on and is super important.

Infrastructure is covered more heavily in the technical handbook.
